Real-Time Internet Peering Protocol (RIPP) BoF Proposal

Suggested Chairs:
?Cullen Jennings

Agenda:
1. Problem Statement [Jonathan R.] - 15mins
2. High Level Protocol summary [ Jonathan R.] - 15mins
3. Implementation Experiences at Google [Justin U.] - 15mins
4. Freeswitch use cases and needs [Anthony M.] - 10mins
5. Agenda review and decision [Cullen J.] - 30mins


Description:
Though extremely successful and deployed on massive scales, the
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) - as a 20 year old protocol - is
showing its age. It is difficult to deploy SIP technologies into
modern public cloud platforms. Its usage of raw IPs and ports, its
load balancing techniques, and its state model, make it incompatible
with services like global load balancers, autoscaling, service meshes,
and so on.

In addition, SIP envisioned call state only at endpoints
and not in servers. However, in practice, there is widespread
deployment of highly stateful servers. However, SIP did not properly
specify the procedures needed to enable high reliability in the face
of server failures, network disconnects, and so on. The state of the
art in handling these problems has advanced significantly in the years
since the publication of SIP, and this is making telecommunications
systems less reliable than web applications.

Finally, SIP has suffered from abuse for robocalling. STIR is working
to address this, but more can be done. A new peering protocol is
needed which is designed, out of the box, to ensure secure and
authorized caller ID.

Because of these limitations, SIP was not used in webRTC, and many
products have built proprietary implementations ontop of HTTP. While
this is fine for browser to server communications, it doesnt enable
interoperable call establishment on server-to-server links (known
today as SIP trunking or SIP peering), or from non-browser based
phones and softclients to servers.

To remedy this, a design team put together a draft specification
called RIPP, which takes advantage of HTTP3 and QUIC to enable
real-time communicatins over those protocols, without extending or
changing them.

The purpose of the BoF is to gain consensus on the formation of a
working group to take the RIPP specifications as a starting point, and
move forwards with standardization.

