This working group will standardize a protocol, capable of operating
ontop of HTTP/3, which is viable for performing real-time voice and
video communications. This is inclusive of signaling, media
negotiation, and transmission of media packets.

The primary rationale for this new protocol is to enable deployment of
real-time communications services ontop of modern "cloud"
systems. These systems are heavily based on HTTP, and for web-based
applications, they enable load balancing, HA, auto-scaling, and so
on. However, real-time communications protocols are based on SIP and
RTP, and they cannot take advantage of these HTTP-based
capabilities. Consequently, a primary constraint of the protocol being
produced is that it must be compatible with, and take advantage of,
HTTP-based load balancers, failover techniques, state handling,
caching, and so on, under the assumption that these systems are
upgraded to support HTTP3, with no special considerations for
real-time communications.

This new protocol will enable the replacement of SIP for many use
cases. However, replacement of SIP is not a primary objective of the
standardization effort. To limit scope, the baseline protocol scope
will be limited to only those capabilities needed to enable
inter-company voice and video calling. This includes enterprise to
telco calling (often called SIP trunking) and telco to telco calling
(often called NNI). The baseline protocol will not do any more than is
required for this. Consequently, features that are strictly end user
device facing (such as invocation of call hold), are outside the scope
of voice (such as instant messaging and presence), or are unrelated to
the real-time communications itself (such as a push notification
channel for mobile clients), are out of scope for the baseline
protocol.

The baseline protocol must also enable the automated configuration of
this connectivity. Current solutions for inter-company communications
require heavily on manual provisioning and configuration of IP
addresses, codecs, capabilities, routing logic, firewall rules, and so
on. The new protocol must include any information conveyance between
providers that is needed, which is specific to real-time
communications.

The baseline protocol will require the communication of calling and
called party identifiers. It will utilize STIR to the greatest extent
possible, and make "secure caller ID" an integral part of the
specification. Similarly, the protocol will allow for e2e media
encryption, though keying is out of scope, and is expected to be
handled by other protocols such as MLS. 

The baseline protocol will adhere to best practices for web
application development. This includes usage of OAuth for
authentication and authorization, naming of resources, formatting and
structure of resource content, usage of POST, PUT, DELETE, and GET,
idempotency, and so on. 

The group will also standardize an extension to the baseline protocol
which enables real-time communications between a browser and its
provider. This has significant overlap with webRTC. Experience has
shown that applications which send media to cloud services are
difficult to build, deploy and operate at scale, for the reaons
discussed above. Consequently, the extension will focus on cases where
the media is sent to the same target as the signaling, and provide a
fallback technique to utilize webRTC when p2p communications is
desired.

The group will do its work in conjunction with active development
efforts, so that implementation experience feeds directly into
protocol development. 

Milestones:

Sep 2021: Submit baseline protocol to IESG
Sep 2021: Submit browser extension protocol to IESG



