



Network Working Group                                  J. Rosenberg, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                                     Five9
Intended status: Standards Track                        January 25, 2020
Expires: July 28, 2020


                 Enterprise Telephony Features in RIPP
            draft-rosenberg-dispatch-ripp-phone-features-00

Abstract

   The Real-Time Internet Peering Protocol (RIPP) defines a technique
   for establishing, terminating and otherwise managing calls between
   entities in differing administrative domains.  This document extends
   RIPP by considering the specific case of an IP hardphone or softphone
   which connects to an IP PBX or similar piece of software.  In this
   use case, additional signaling is needed for traditional telephony
   features, like hold, transfer, and park.  This document extends RIPP
   to provide these capabilities.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on July 28, 2020.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must



Rosenberg                 Expires July 28, 2020                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft             RIPP Phone Features              January 2020


   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

1.  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP
   14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.  Introduction

   blah

3.  Blind Transfer

   Performs a blind transfer of the call.  The event contains a string
   which MUST be a valid value for the target URI parameter used when
   setting up a new call.  Once the transfer has initiated, the server
   MUST generate a transfer-reject event if it is unwilling to perform
   the transfer.  If it attempts the transfer, it MUST send a transfer-
   pending event indicating that the transfer is in progress.  If the
   transfer target answers the call, the server MUST generate a
   transfer-success event, followed by an end event, indicating the call
   is over for this user.  If the transfer fails, the server MUST
   generate a transfer-failed event, in which case the call continues.
   Once the transfer target answers, it MUST be sent a transferred-from
   event, containing the URI of the call from which the transfer
   happened.

4.  Warm Transfer

   transfer-warm: performs a warm transfer.  For this to work, the
   endpoint sending the event must be in two calls.  It sends this event
   on the one to be transferred to the other.  The event has a single
   parameter which specifies the URI of the call to which the transfer
   is taking place.  This two calls MUST have the same authority
   component of their call URI.  Once the peer receives this event, it
   MUST perform the transfer.  The transfer will either complete almost
   immediately else fail.  If it succeeds, the peer MUST respond with a
   transfer-success event; if it fails, respond with a transfer-failed
   event, in which case the call continues.  Furthermore, if the
   transfer succeeds, the transfer target MUST be sent a transferred-
   from event, containing the URI of the call from which the transfer
   happened.




Rosenberg                 Expires July 28, 2020                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft             RIPP Phone Features              January 2020


5.  Hold and Resume

   hold: performs a call hold on the call.  Either side can initiate
   this, but only if its peer indicates support.  Similarly, to inform
   its peer that it has been placed on hold, either side may send an on-
   hold event to its peer, but only if hold has been indicated as a
   capability.  When an endpoint has been told it is on-hold, it MUST
   send silence for audio and black screen for video.  The peer MAY
   generate music-on-hold or any other suitable content to render while
   the endpoint is on hold.

6.  Mute

   mute: informs the peer that it has muted.  This is informative for UI
   purposes, useful in conference calls for example.  When an endpoint
   mutes, in addition to sending the mute event, it MUST send silence
   for audio and black screen for video.  Similarly, if an endpoint
   wishes to inform its peer that it is muting its media, it sends a
   mute event.

7.  IANA Considerations

   No values are assigned in this document, no registries are created,
   and there is no action assigned to the IANA by this document.

8.  Security Considerations

   This document introduces no new security considerations.  It is a
   process document about changes to the rules for certain corner cases
   in publishing IETF stream RFCs.

9.  Informative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

Author's Address








Rosenberg                 Expires July 28, 2020                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft             RIPP Phone Features              January 2020


   Jonathan Rosenberg (editor)
   Five9
   4000 Executive Parkway #400
   San Ramon, CA  94583
   US

   Email: jdrosen@jdrosen.net












































Rosenberg                 Expires July 28, 2020                 [Page 4]
